#57 Add documentation for first 7 USD tutorials (#58)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/integration_resources/resources/usd_tutorials/usd_tutorial_03.md

Reviewer: Review the use of <tt> and quotes for this page and change it by italics. Refer to all the nodes with italics, otherwise it gets confusing.

Author: Done

## Referencing Layers

> This tutorial is focused on referencing the stage created in the previous tutorials into a new stage, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog. The example will reuse the `HelloWorld.usda` file generated in the previous tutorial [Inspecting and Authoring Properties](usd_tutorial_02.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is focused on creating a new stage that references the stage created in the previous tutorials, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog. The example will reuse the `HelloWorld.usda` file generated during the last tutorial [Inspecting and Authoring Properties](usd_tutorial_02.md).
```

The base file for the example, `HelloWorld.usda`, can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/referencingLayers/` folder.

### Tutorial

1. Open Shift application. A new window's instance of Shift should appear like the following one:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_01_t03.png" alt="Shift UI.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 2. Now, add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `StageOpen`. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** plug a filepath pointing to the `HelloWorld.usda` file downloaded for the example. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `StageOpen`. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** plug a filepath pointing to the `HelloWorld.usda` file downloaded for the example. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_03_t03.png" alt="Added the 'HelloGet' node to the board connected to the 'StageOpen' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: Added the 'HelloGet' node to the board connected to the 'StageOpen' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

4. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageDefaultPrimSet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `DefaultPrimSet`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `StageOpen` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node, also, connect the **prim** output plug from the `HelloGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_04_t03.png" alt="Added the 'DefaultPrimSet' node to the board connected to the 'HelloGet' and 'StageOpen' nodes.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 4</b>: Added the 'DefaultPrimSet' node to the board connected to the 'HelloGet' and 'StageOpen' nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 5. For adding a translation to the `Hello` prim, add a new **<tt>UsdXformSet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloXformSet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `HelloGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node and connect the **out-trigger** from the `DefaultPrimSet` node to the **in-trigger** of the new node. Set `[4, 5, 6]` as the value for the **translate** input plug and leave the **useTime** input plug value set as `False`, the **time** input plug value set as `0`, and the **rotate**, **scale** and **pivot** input plugs values set as `None`. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. For adding a translation to the `Hello` prim, add a new **<tt>UsdXformSet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloXformSet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `HelloGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node and connect the **out-trigger** from the `DefaultPrimSet` node to the **in-trigger** of the new node. Set `[4, 5, 6]` as the value for the **translate** input plug and leave the **useTime** input plug value set as `False`, the **time** input plug value set as `0`, and the **rotate**, **scale** and **pivot** input plugs values set as `None`. The board should look like the following:
```
```suggestion
5. For adding a translation to the `Hello` prim, add a new **<tt>UsdXformSet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloXformSet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `HelloGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node and connect the **out-trigger** from the `DefaultPrimSet` node to the **in-trigger** of the new node. Set `[4, 5, 6]` as the value for the **translate** input plug,  leave the **useTime** input plug value set as `False`, the **time** input plug value set as `0`, and the **rotate**, **scale** and **pivot** input plugs values set as `None`. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_05_t03.png" alt="Added the 'HelloXformSet' node to the board connected to the 'DefaultPrimSet' and 'HelloGet' nodes.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: Added the 'HelloXformSet' node to the board connected to the 'DefaultPrimSet' and 'HelloGet' nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

6. Add a new **<tt>UsdPrimStageGet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloStageGet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `HelloXformSet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_06_t03.png" alt="Added the 'HelloStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'HelloXformSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Added the 'HelloStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'HelloXformSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 7. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloWorldStageSave`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `HelloStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave empty the value for the **filepath** input plug, doing this, the original file will be overriden. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `HelloWorldStageSave`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `HelloStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **filepath** input plug empty to override the original file. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_07_t03.png" alt="Added the 'HelloWorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'HelloStageGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 7</b>: Added the 'HelloWorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'HelloStageGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 8. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageNew</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefExampleStageNew`. Connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the `HelloWorldStageSave` node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. Set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to a file named `RefExample.usda`, that file will be used for adding references of the previous modified stage. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageNew</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefExampleStageNew`. Connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the `HelloWorldStageSave` node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. Set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to a file named `RefExample.usda`. That file will be used for adding references to the previous modified stage. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_08_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefExampleStageNew' node to the board connected to the 'HelloWorldStageSave' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 8</b>: Added the 'RefExampleStageNew' node to the board connected to the 'HelloWorldStageSave' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

9. For overriding a prim in a stage, add a new **<tt>UsdPrimOverride</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereOverride`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `RefExampleStageNew` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Set `/refSphere` as the value for the **primpath** input plug. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_09_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphereOverride' node to the board connected to the 'RefExampleStageNew' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 9</b>: Added the 'RefSphereOverride' node to the board connected to the 'RefExampleStageNew' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 10. Add a new **<tt>UsdPrimReferenceAdd</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereReferenceAdd`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphereOverride` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Set `Reference` as the value for the **mode** input plug and `None` as the value for the **reference** input plug. For the **filepath** input plug, set as value the path to the updated `HelloWorld.usda` file used at the beginning of the tutorial, for example, `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/03/HelloWorld.usda`. Leave the value empty for the **primpath** input plug, `None` as the value for the **variantSet** input plug and empty value for the **variantName** input plug. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Add a new **<tt>UsdPrimReferenceAdd</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereReferenceAdd`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphereOverride` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Set `Reference` as the value for the **mode** input plug and `None` as the value for the **reference** input plug. For the **filepath** input plug, set as value the path to the updated `HelloWorld.usda` file used at the beginning of the tutorial, `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/03/HelloWorld.usda`. Leave the value empty for the **primpath** input plug, `None` as the value for the **variantSet** input plug and empty value for the **variantName** input plug. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_10_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereOverride' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 10</b>: Added the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereOverride' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

11. Add another **<tt>UsdPrimStageGet</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereStageGet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphereReferenceAdd` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_11_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphereStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 11</b>: Added the 'RefSphereStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 12. Add another **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereStageSave`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `RefSphereStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave empty the value for the **filepath** input plug, doing this, the original file will be overriden. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: Please rephrase that sentence where necessary.

```suggestion
12. Add another **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphereStageSave`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `RefSphereStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **filepath** input plug empty to override the original file. The board should look like the following:
```

    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_13_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphereOpOrderClear' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' and 'RefSphereStageSave' nodes.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 13</b>: Added the 'RefSphereOpOrderClear' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereReferenceAdd' and 'RefSphereStageSave' nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

14. Add a new **<tt>UsdPrimOverride</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphere2Override`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `RefSphereStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node, also, connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the `RefSphereOpOrderClear` node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. Set `/refSphere2` as the value for the **primpath** input plug. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_14_t03.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphere2Override' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereStageGet' and 'RefSphereOpOrderClear' nodes.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 14</b>: Added the 'RefSphere2Override' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphereStageGet' and 'RefSphereOpOrderClear' nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 15. Add another **<tt>UsdPrimReferenceAdd</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphere2ReferenceAdd`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphere2Override` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. As done in the previous step 10, set `Reference` as the value for the **mode** input plug and `None` as the value for the **reference** input plug. For the **filepath** input plug, set as value the path to the updated `HelloWorld.usda` file used at the beginning of the tutorial, for example, `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/03/HelloWorld.usda`. Leave the value empty for the **primpath** input plug, `None` as the value for the **variantSet** input plug and empty value for the **variantName** input plug. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. Add another **<tt>UsdPrimReferenceAdd</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `RefSphere2ReferenceAdd`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphere2Override` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. As done in the previous step 10, set `Reference` as the value for the **mode** input plug and `None` as the value for the **reference** input plug. For the **filepath** input plug, set as value the path to the updated `HelloWorld.usda` file used at the beginning of the tutorial,  `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/03/HelloWorld.usda`. Leave the value empty for the **primpath** input plug, `None` as the value for the **variantSet** input plug and empty value for the **variantName** input plug. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_20_t03.png" alt="Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 20</b>: Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

21. Add another **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `WorldStageSave`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `WorldStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave empty the value for the **filepath** input plug, doing this, the original file will be overriden. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_21_t03.png" alt="Added the 'WorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 21</b>: Added the 'WorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 22. Finally, for *flattening* the resulting stage. Following the Pixar's documentation page, *flattening* means producing a single layer of scene description that contains the final “composed data” from a set of composed layers, and retains no composition operators such as references, payloads, inherits, variants, sublayers, and activations. For doing this, add a new **<tt>UsdStageFlatten</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `StageFlatten`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `WorldStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **layer** input plug with the default value `None` set. Also, connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the `WorldStageSave` node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: No need to explain it. If you want you can add a hyperlink to the meaning in Pixar's documentation.

Try to avoid starting sentences with Also . You can use additionally or finally  instead.
```suggestion
22. To flatten the resulting stage, add a new **<tt>UsdStageFlatten</tt>** node to the board and rename it to `StageFlatten`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `WorldStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **layer** input plug with the default value `None` set. Finally, connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the `WorldStageSave` node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_23_t03.png" alt="Added the 'FlattenStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'StageFlatten' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 23</b>: Added the 'FlattenStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'StageFlatten' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

24. Execute the entire workflow. Open the `RefExample.usda` file, it will contain the references and overrides updated. Also, preview the `RefExampleFlatten.usda` for checking how *flattening* the stage works.

### Visualizing the Stage

Shift is shipped with native plugins to visualize and inspect the stage. They can be accessed from the *Usd* top menu:
* **USD Outliner**: Shows the user the stage hierarchy sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

* **USD Viewer**: Shows the stage in the Usd viewer sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_25_t03.png" alt="Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 24</b>: Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.</figcaption>
</figure>

> Also, the *usdview* tool shipped with USD is used to visualise and inspect the stage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *USD viewer* tool shipped with USD is used to visualise and inspect the stage viewport:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_19_t03.png" alt="Added the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 19</b>: Added the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

20. Add another *UsdPrimStageGet* node to the board and rename it to *WorldStageGet*. Connect the **prim** output plug from the *WorldDisplayColorSet* node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_20_t03.png" alt="Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 20</b>: Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 21. Add another *UsdStageSave* node to the board and rename it to *WorldStageSave*. Connect the **stage** output plug from the *WorldStageGet* node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave empty the value for the **filepath** input plug, doing this, the original file will be overriden. The board should look like the following:

Author: Done

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_21_t03.png" alt="Added the 'WorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 21</b>: Added the 'WorldStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

22. To flatten the resulting stage, add a new *UsdStageFlatten* node to the board and rename it to *StageFlatten*. Connect the **stage** output plug from the *WorldStageGet* node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **layer** input plug with the default value to `None`. Finally, connect the **out-trigger** output plug from the *WorldStageSave* node to the **in-trigger** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_22_t03.png" alt="Added the 'StageFlatten' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 22</b>: Added the 'StageFlatten' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 23. For saving the stage after flattening it, add another *UsdStageSave* node to the board and rename it to *FlattenStageSave*. Connect the **stage** output plug from the *StageFlatten* node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Now, set the value for the **filepath** input plug to point to a new `.usda` file for avoiding overwritting the final result, for example, `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/03/RefExampleFlatten.usda`. The board should look like the following:

Author: Done

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_23_t03.png" alt="Added the 'FlattenStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'StageFlatten' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 23</b>: Added the 'FlattenStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'StageFlatten' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

24. Execute the entire workflow. Open the `RefExample.usda` file, it will contain the references and overrides updated. Also, preview the `RefExampleFlatten.usda` for checking how *flattening* the stage works.

### Visualizing the Stage

Shift is shipped with native plugins to visualize and inspect the stage. They can be accessed from the *Usd* top menu:
* **USD Outliner**: Shows the user the stage hierarchy sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

* **USD Viewer**: Shows the stage in the Usd viewer sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_03/step_25_t03.png" alt="Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 24</b>: Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.</figcaption>
</figure>

> The *USD viewer* tool shipped with USD is used to visualise and inspect the stage viewport:

Author: Same comment as before.
